Welcome back everyone.
And this lecture we're going to discuss how to blend and paste images on top of each other.
Open C-v often.
We're going to be a work of multiple images an open city has many programmatic methods of blending images
together and pasting images on top of each other.
For blending images together this is done through the add a weighted function from open CV and it's
actually a really simple idea.
It just uses both images and combines some sort of weights attached to each image or each image pixel
adds them together and that results in your new pixel.
So the formula is essentially the following.
The new pixel in the new blended image is equal to some value alpha of your choosing times.
The first pixel in the first image plus some value Bayda that you also the side times the second pixel
a second image at the same location and then if you want you can optionals add in a gamma factor.
All you're doing here is you're doing a weighted sum.
If you want pixel 1 from the first image to be more represented you would just make a higher alpha value.
If you want the image from pixel to or the second image to be less represented in the blended version
you would just lower your beta value.
So I need to do is just alpha and beta to your choosing and you can have the image one show up stronger
in the blended image or image to show up stronger.
And if you want you can also add in a gamma value to manipulate the image.
Further for the blended image.
OK so if that being said we're going to explore the syntax for open in this lecture.
It gets a little bit complicated when your images are not the same size.
Yet the little bit of masking so will show you how to do that.
We're going to start off with some simple examples where we just blend in and add and paste images together
that are the same size and that will do a more complex example where we actually have images of different
sizes and then we blend them on top of each other.
Let's get started.
All right here I am at a new notebook.
I'm just going to import CB2.
That's all we need for now.
Let's open up the images that we're gonna be working with.
The first image is going to be the dog backpack.
Image will say CB2 image read and the pinning on where your data folder is.
Go ahead and read it in.
In my case it's in the same directory as this notebook so I'm going to read in dog backpack and then
Image 2 is going to be CB2 in read and in this one.
We're gonna go ahead and grab what's known as a watermark so we'll say a watermark.
No copy and I'm actually then going to convert these to the right color because remember CB2 read them
in as blue green red and we actually want to read them in as red green blue which means right after
these lines we'll say image one is equal to CB2 thought CVT color and we'll pass an image one and then
whoops pass an image one and say CB2 and color.
We're going to say underscore are to our G-B and we're going to copy and paste this command and do the
same thing for image too.
So just replace that one with Fatou there.
OK so that loads them up and does the color correction.
Let's do a quick showing of these.
If we want to show them we first set the import plot lib.
Hi plot's as Piazzi and also do that plotless in line for that you put in your book users will say fealty
show and we're going to do here is show the first one.
So there it is.
There's that cute dog in the backpack.
And let's see the second one show image to and this is a do not copy.
So something to note here is that these are actually not the same size.
And you can see this right off the bat with diamond and shown the dog in the backpack is from 0 to around
4500 on the y axis and 0.
Probably around 800 on the x axis and then Image 2 on the y axis goes from zero to a little over 200
and then 0 to a little over twelve hundred.
And if we actually check the shapes themselves to get the exact Minchin's you can see here the shape
of image Schwann.
So these them insurance plus the three color channels and then image too.
You can check the shape of that one.
And again it looks like it's almost square but it's actually not.
And then we have the three color channels.
Let's start off by actually resizing these images so we can show you how you can directly paste images
on top of each other and blend them together.
So I will resize the images so that they are equal to each other and let's resize them both to be twelve
hundred by twelve hundred.
That will the store this dog backpack image.
So keep that in mind.
But right now we're going to go with the simple example of not having to create a mask because often
when you look the sort of things up online they're conveniently the same size and then they don't show
you how to actually blend images together at different sizes so we're going to show you both if they're
the same size.
It's a lot easier if they're not same size.
It's a bit trickier.
Let's start off with blending images that are the same size.
We'll say blending images of the same size.
OK.
So first thing we do is just resize them we'll say image one is equal to CB2 number we can resize images
and then we'll say told a hundred by 12 hundred on the copy and paste this command and then just change
it from image 1 to image to and that will resize the images.
Now keep in mind they're going to be slightly distorted now.
So I noticed the dog backpack Smith squeezed a little bit to these dimensions as well as the do not
copy although it's much closer to the Do Not copies original dimensions so it really doesn't look that
squeeze.
Now let's go ahead and blend the images using that image formula that we saw earlier the way we do this
is actually pretty simple.
All we do is we say blended or whatever variable you want to use when it is equal to CB2 And then when
we use that add weight add function dimension and the ADD weighted function if you do shift tab here
on Jupiter it'll show you it take source 1.
That's the first image plus some alpha value that you want to multiply sourced one by then source 2
plus some beta value that you want to multiply it by and then an optional gamma.
Let's try it out.
We're going to say that our source one image is the dog backpack image so image one and we'll have that
be alpha 0.5 source 2 is going to be image number two and we'll have that beta value also be equal to
0.5.
So essentially we're going to see both images more or less the same amount and I don't want anything
else so I'll say Gamma's equal to zero.
And could play around at these values as you see fit will say you'll see him show blended.
And if you check up blended we have equal amounts of representation from the dog and the backpack image
as well as do not copy image.
Notice that the do not copy had white as a background.
So you do see that white showing up on top of that dog backpack image which is why the dog backpack
looks a little more faded.
Now let's imagine that we really wanted image want to shine a lot more so we could give it a much higher
alpha value and give image to a much lower beta value.
And if you were to rerun this you'll notice now you can barely see the do not copy.
On top of the original image.
So that's how you can manipulate the actual blending through the Alpha and Beta values.
And then you can also experiment with the gamma and see if that affects anything.
Oftentimes the really most important parts are the alpha and beta.
OK so now let's go ahead and show you how you can overlay images of different sizes.
So far we've been lucky these two images were the same size.
If you try to do this exact same process of images that are different sizes you end up getting air.
So we're going to show you two operations.
The first operation we're going to show is how can you make it appear to overlay a small image on top
of a larger image.
And this is going to be with no blending so no blending and all this is actually going to be it's essentially
going to be a numb pie reassignment operation.
So we're just going to take the values of the larger image and reassign them to equal the smaller image
in a particular section of the larger image.
So we're going to work through that one.
And then the second one we're going to show you is how you can blend together images of different sizes.
Essentially the same thing as we're going to do here except we will be blending the images together.
So in this first one we're going to do a straight up overlay.
You won't see the original image underneath.
And then the second one will actually blend them together.
But unfortunately when you're blending them together you can no longer use this add waited.
So this ad wait it only works when the images are the same size.
It's a little bit more complicated if your images are different sizes.
Let's start off with the simpler overlaying small image on top of a larger image.
OK.
In order to make sure this works I'm going to reload the images so we'll come up here and a copy and
paste these four lines of code that loaded the images going to run that.
And let's take image.
That's the smaller SD watermark.
No copy.
And I'm going to resize it to be a lot smaller so let's make it 600 by 600.
Well say image 2 is equal to CB2 resize.
I'll take that image too and then I will resize it to 600 by 600.
OK.
So let's check out what that looks like now.
I'll say it show on image 2 and notice now it's dimensions only go from 600 to 600.
And if I take a look at the dog backpack image which is now image one that goes from zero all the way
to 4800 on the y axis and 0 all the way to around a 100 something on the x axis.
So I can easily fit the 600 by 600.
Do not copy somewhere onto this larger image and it's a lot easier to keep track of the images if you
label one large image and another one small image.
Let's do that now.
I will say large image is equal to image 1.
The dog backpack image and small image is equal to image 2.
That is the resized do not copy.
And then what I need to do is figure out the actual logic of taking a chunk of the larger image pixel
values and replacing them with the entirety of this smaller image and it's actually pretty straightforward.
If you feel comfortable with some pie slicing So all you need to do is say X offset and y offset.
These are going to this is going to stand as your markers of where you actually start the image and
where we're actually going to overlay the image.
In this case we'll start at the top left corner.
So I will set my X and Y offset to 0 and then later I'll play around these values.
So basically what that means is I intend to paste this do not copy image over here at 0 0 0 0 0 0 that's
the top left corner.
So that will be my X offset and my y offset.
Then I need to figure out where I'm going to end my X slice and where I'm going to end my y slice.
Keep in mind we usually don't make all these variables just do this as a simple command but I think
it's a little helpful in the explanations.
If you actually provide the variable names so we have X offset in our way offset how are we going to
define X and well X and is essentially your offset plus the length of x in the smaller image.
So all we need to do is say X offset plus the length of X and the small image which in our case is going
to be equal to the actual columns.
So that's the second or index one of the small image shape.
So we'll take the small image grab that shape which remember returns a tuple.
So if we check this out we'd run this.
So along the x that's actually this number right here 600.
So we're going to say grab that one and it's a really similar logical process for white ends.
It's just your offset.
Plus how tall your small images and your small image how tall it is equal to shape 0.
OK so we're going to run that.
And now we have x and y end and then all we need to do is say take the large image and you're going
to grab some chunk of X and then some chunk of y and reassign it to be equal to the small image and
it's a little backwards that we have to think about it because of the way Pye's thinking about X and
Y versus the way your image is thinking about X and Y.
So notice PI thinks of these columns as the x axis here and these y values those are essentially non-pilot
rows.
So keep in mind it gets a little tricky thinking about which one comes first the x or the Y.
So in this case when we're seeing large image it should be from the Y offset first sliced all the way
to y ends Khama the X offset sliced all the way to the X end.
Let's run that.
And now if I check out what my large image looks like I have successfully overlaid the do not copy starting
at this point.
00 So again all we're really doing here is just measuring out a chunk of the larger image that happens
to have the exact same dimensions as the small image and then we're just replacing out those values.
Notice here there is no blending.
All we're doing is we're grabbing a chunk of the original large image and then replacing it with a smaller
image.
It's as simple as that.
And we can do that with simple non-pay.
You don't have to do all these in-between variable steps you could just put this all in one giant one
liner.
But for explanatory purposes I think it's a little easier to see out the variables in your actual notebook.
We don't take this extra step of X and Y and we just stick those out into this large image re-assignment.
OK.
So that's how you can overlay images at different sizes essentially just swapping out original information.
Now we're going to do is show you in the next lecture how to blend images of different sizes.
We'll see you there.
Continue right where we left off.